The Computer Science major prepares students with an adaptable skill set to respond to the astonishing speed of technological change and develop solutions for the problems of today and tomorrow. Using a student-centered, interdisciplinary, and future-focused approach, the Computer Science major aims to educate the next generation of local leaders who will make a meaningful and lasting societal impact both in Vietnam – one of the most quickly emerging and innovative technology economies in the world – and beyond. As part of the major, students will be equipped with the foundational knowledge in Computer Science and relevant disciplines. They will be exposed to essential areas of the CS discipline including theory, systems, and applications. They will learn about the underlying mathematical ideas that are critical for computation, establish proficiency in the process of designing systems and applications, gain experience in collecting and analyzing data using modern technologies, and begin to develop an understanding for the role of users in the design of systems and applications. Courses in Computer Science go beyond content to help students learn through direct experiences in projects and problems. In the future, they will also have the opportunity to further focus their studies by selecting a concentration, such as data science, artificial intelligence and machine learning, business analytics, digital media, and software engineering. The Computer Science major at Fulbright is designed to prepare students for work in industry or continue their lifelong learning as well as potential graduate-level studies.
Students in the Computer Science major will:
1. Think computationally: critically analyze, decompose, evaluate, and solve problems.
2. Demonstrate an understanding of, and gain experience in, foundational areas in computer science, including in theory, systems, and applications.
3. Explain emerging aspects of their discipline (e.g., artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, business analytics, digital media, etc.).
4. Practice collaboration, communication, and lifelong learning skills essential to an evolving computer science industry.
5. Apply knowledge of different disciplines to mathematics and computer science through Fulbright’s unique liberal arts approach.
6. Produce a portfolio of tangible projects (e.g., apps, community-service work, capstone projects, etc.).
7. Prepare for cutting edge and developing careers in computer science and for competitive graduate and professional study at top-tier international programs.
All students are first required to take the core courses in Liberal Arts and Science. In addition to the two courses in “Global Humanities and Social Change”, and “Modern Vietnamese Culture and Society”, they will be exposed to computational thinking as part of Fulbright’s undergraduate core courses in “Quantitative Reasoning for a Digital Age.”, “Scientific Inquiry”, and “Design and Systems Thinking”. Exploratory courses encourage students to step out of their comfort zone by exploring broad areas of study and discover more fully where their interests and passions lay. Students need to complete 8 credits (2 courses) chosen from each course category.
They will be then equipped with the knowledge in the foundational courses in Computer Science including the courses that will lay out the Mathematics Foundation, Software Foundation, and Hardware Foundation, and one course in Professional Responsibilities and Ethics in CS. These courses provide students with an opportunity to build a solid knowledge base in computation, while also permitting non-majors to pursue courses of interest. After having the knowledge in the CS foundation courses, the students will continue their journey with the major courses, which are designed to cover the most important and basic knowledge in the major aspects in Computer Science including a series of six courses that prepare for them to pursue their studies in the concentration areas of Computer Science. Following the completion of their foundation and major courses, students will have flexibility in their choice of elective/concentration courses to continue on with their areas of interest. Potential concentrations will include artificial intelligence and machine learning, data science, software engineering, digital media, CS for business, security, etc.